Gate: PR review (spec fidelity), backend wd-reviewer
PR: felho/wienerdog#31, branch wp/dream-promote-module
Reviewed tip: 9d8daf3 (the branch advanced twice during the read; the reviewer
re-ran every mechanical check on 9d8daf3 and said so unprompted).
Round: 1
Committed BEFORE adjudication, per docs/runbooks/codex-review.md.
Read-only confirmed: git status --porcelain byte-identical (empty) before and after.

VERDICT: REQUEST-CHANGES

Mechanical verification (all re-run on 9d8daf3):
  boundary-check.js x 5 changed files       -> all exit=0 (incl. the always-allowed logbook .txt)
  npm test --test-name-pattern dream-promote -> exit=0, 140 pass / 0 fail
  npm test                                   -> exit=1, 2165 pass / 1 fail (adopt-e2e)
      INDEPENDENTLY VERIFIED PRE-EXISTING: reviewer cloned the repo to /tmp,
      checked out merge base dcd5777, ran the file -> fails identically
      (4 pass / 1 fail, same test, same claude-pin-drift error).
  npm run lint                               -> exit=0
  npm test --test-name-pattern claim-2b-merge-cwd -> exit=0, both cwd tests green
  consumed-by-nothing grep                   -> exit=0
  glossary grep                              -> exit=0
  Boundary: CLEAN. validate.js and src/cli/dream.js untouched.

Per-acceptance-criterion verdict: 19 MET, 1 PARTIALLY MET (#12), 2 NOT MET
(#17 Q4 three-state case, #18 Q5/Q6), 1 MET-with-named-exception (#23).

FINDINGS

F1 [contract] BLOCKER - a redaction that is later refused silently loses the
   quarantine artifact name, which Q3 calls the user's only route back to
   their copy.
   promote.js:898-905 (redacted.push / redactions++ reached ONLY after a
   successful publish) vs :875 and :892 (both refusal paths push {rel, reason}).
   Reproduced by the reviewer. A path the EP2 gate redacts - meaning the gate
   has ALREADY written an unredacted copy into state/quarantine/redacted/ - and
   which is then refused by a post-merge gate, by pair atomicity, or by the
   expect guard, returns:
       promoted: []   redacted: []
       refused: [{ rel: "01-Projects/a/n.md", reason: "tier-3 floor: refused after redaction" }]
       secretDisposition: { withheld: 0, redactions: 0 }
   The artifact name is gone from the return entirely. Per Table Q row Q3,
   "Losing the line loses the copy in practice, which is why this is a
   data-loss row and not a reporting nicety." WP-dream-promote-report cannot
   compose that line from a value this module does not return.
   NOT THE IMPLEMENTER'S TO FIX: Table S row S3 and the @returns block both fix
   refused[] as {rel, reason}, and the deliverable test asserts that key set
   exactly (dream-promote.test.js:778). The type the spec mandates cannot
   express "refused, but a durable artifact exists".
   ROUTE TO wd-architect: reconcile Table Q (Q1/Q3) with Table S (S3) /
   ### Exact contracts - either a third arm, or an explicit Q-row ruling that a
   redact-then-refuse cannot happen, or an artifact carrier on the refused arm
   that S3's no-bytes rule tolerates.

F2 [criteria] BLOCKER - Q4's named non-obvious case is unassertable against
   Table Q's own gate interface.
   Spec :616-623 requires "the refusal names which of the three states it
   found... Asserted separately for the case that makes it non-obvious: a copy
   exists but does NOT match the current bytes... the criterion goes RED against
   an implementation that treats any saved copy as sufficient."
   promote.js:680-685 checks only that verdict.artifact is a non-empty string -
   precisely "treats any saved copy as sufficient". It CANNOT do better: Table Q
   row Q1's taxonomy carries {redact, sanitizedBytes, lines, labels, artifact}
   and has NO field expressing whether the preserved copy byte-matches the bytes
   that are there now, and row Q7 forbids this module from touching the state
   directory to find out. The single error message also does not distinguish
   three states.
   The implementer did NOT record this one.
   ROUTE TO wd-architect: either Q1 gains a match-verdict field, or the
   criterion moves to the package that owns the gate.

F3 [criteria] BLOCKER (confirming the implementer's resolution b - reviewer
   agrees it is right) - Q5/Q6 have acceptance criteria in a spec whose
   Deliverables cannot reach them.
   Spec :624-629 requires the redacted/ prune and the byte-identity deletion
   rule. Row Q7 states the gate preserves and "This module never touches the
   state directory"; validate.js is out of boundary. Two criteria with no
   implementable surface is a spec bug, not an implementer omission.
   ROUTE TO wd-architect. Leaving them unimplemented and raising a discovered
   issue was the correct call.

F4 [quality] SHOULD-FIX - the "every write goes through the primitive" test
   cannot detect a bypass that is also omitted from the return.
   dream-promote.test.js:583-607. The assertion is
   deepEqual(throughSeam.sort(), published), where published is derived from
   res.promoted/res.redacted. A hypothetical direct writeFileSync that does NOT
   also record an outcome leaves both sides equal and the test green. The
   criterion says "failing if ANY vault content write bypasses it." Strengthen
   by walking the vault tree after the run and asserting the set of files whose
   bytes differ from the pre-run vault equals throughSeam. (The PR body's RED
   proof used a bypass that WAS reported, so it did not surface this.)

F5 [contract] SHOULD-FIX - Table C's stated evaluation order is not the order
   implemented, in two places.
   Spec :267: "Rows C1-C8 are the evaluated conditions, top to bottom, first
   match decides."
   Implemented order is C2 -> EP2 -> C1 -> C3-C8:
   (a) promote.js:605 - C2 (deleted) is evaluated BEFORE C1. A brain that
       deletes a non-admitted baseline file is refused with "promotion never
       deletes" where C1-first yields "not admitted". Outcome identical, reason
       not. NOT RECORDED in the PR body's Decisions.
   (b) promote.js:709 - C1 (admit) runs AFTER the secret gate (:638). This one
       IS recorded (Decision 4) and the reasoning is defensible, but it has an
       observable consequence on a typed pipeline signal the spec calls out by
       name: a secret (or binary content, :627) on a path C1 would never admit
       still increments secretDisposition.withheld, and per Table E "ONLY
       withheld defers a transcript". A .gitignore with a NUL byte defers a
       transcript today.
   Where C1 sits relative to the four gates is genuinely underspecified - Table C
   orders C1-C8 among themselves, Table D orders the gates among themselves, and
   no surface orders the two sets against each other. THIS IS THE SPEC'S TO
   SETTLE (wd-architect), and the settlement should state explicitly whether a
   never-admissible path feeds secretDisposition. C2-before-C1 is separately
   just wrong against the table as written.

F6 [convention] SHOULD-FIX - the round-1 fix falsified a Current-state
   statement in the spec, which is now mirror drift.
   Spec :129-131: "src/core/dream/workspace.js - createWorkspace,
   destroyWorkspace and the exported containment helper isAtOrBeneath. This
   module calls none of them."
   After 9d8daf3, promote.js:70 does require('./workspace') and :411 calls
   isAtOrBeneath(root, o.workspaceDir).
   THE FIX ITSELF IS CORRECT AND THE REVIEWER ENDORSES IT. os.tmpdir() honours
   ambient TMPDIR, the dream already passes TMPDIR through to the brain, and the
   merge exit code is a security decision - so the cwd had to be CHECKED.
   Importing the family's single containment helper is exactly right; the
   Implementation-notes prohibition is on BUILDING a second containment check
   (:483-486), which this does not do. Signature order verified:
   isAtOrBeneath(candidate, root) at workspace.js:186, called correctly. The
   throw is inside threeWayMerge's try, so the finally still removes the temp
   root - no residue. The regression test at :648 restores TMPDIR in a finally
   and self-checks its own fixture.
   But the spec sentence is now false, and this family's own rule is that a
   mirror falling out of agreement with the code is a finding.
   wd-architect should amend :130 to authorise the import explicitly (otherwise
   the next round's re-verifier reads it as an out-of-scope dependency).

F7 [quality] NIT - the resolved-path test asserts the outcome but not the
   mechanism.
   dream-promote.test.js:287-307 asserts only that a refusal exists and that the
   victim directory gained nothing. The reviewer verified out-of-band that the
   refusal really comes from admit on the resolved rel (reason observed:
   ".claude/evil.md was refused by the caller's policy: not admitted: path
   segment `.claude` ..."), but the test would stay green if the primitive's
   symlink refusal (H3) fired instead. Assert the reason names the RESOLVED path
   (.claude/evil.md) to make it discriminate as the criterion intends.

F8 [quality] NIT - layout is the one required input not validated.
   promote.js:540-554 validates vaultDir, workspaceDir, baseline, delta, gates
   and throws. A missing or malformed layout instead flows into makeAdmit,
   produces an empty admittedDirs, and silently refuses EVERY path with "not
   under a writable vault tier directory" - a run that promotes nothing and
   looks like policy rather than a caller bug. Fail loud like the other five.

F9 [quality] NIT - PR body is stale against the reviewed tip.
   It records 898 lines (now 923), four changed files (now five), and
   verification output from db86d3e. Definition of done item 1 requires the
   pasted output to match. Also relevant per this repo's own history: BOTH PR
   GATES MUST BE CLEAN ON THE SAME TIP - the gptsol round-1 gate ran on
   db86d3e/b4a9e24, this gate ran on 9d8daf3. The T3 tripwire measurement needs
   re-reporting (923 total / ~400 code); reporting it remains the implementer's
   only obligation, and no cut is theirs to make.

CONTRACT-DENSITY / CLOSED-CONTRACT DRIFT CHECK (ADR-0031)

Four of this round's findings land on ONE contract family: the EP2 gate's result
and what carries it downstream - F1 (Q1/Q3 have no carrier in the return once a
redaction is refused), F2 (Q1 has no field for Q4's three states), F3 (Q5/Q6
have criteria but no surface), plus the @param/Table D disagreement the
implementer already raised. Table Q was itself extracted in pass (b) BECAUSE
four rounds kept landing on "what the EP2 gate produces besides a verdict" - and
it is still incomplete: it settled the SHAPE of the success arm and left the
failure arms, the invariant's evidence, and the lifecycle rows without owners
inside this boundary. RECOMMEND a canonical-extraction/reconciliation pass on
Table Q against Table S and ### Exact contracts, deciding in one sitting: the
redact-then-refuse arm, Q4's evidence field, and whether Q5/Q6 belong here at all.

No closed contract was silently reinterpreted and no mirror was promoted to
primary: Table H's containment and publish discipline are cited, never restated;
admit/expect match the primitive's signature exactly (two-state expect,
string|null admit - verified against the primitive's Done spec); Table D's
per-gate input enumerations are each passed in full; the merge takes the delta
primitive's constructed-environment recipe faithfully (promote.js:355-386). The
one drift is F6, and it was introduced by a correct fix rather than by a
reinterpretation.

RECOMMENDATION

Route F1, F2, F3, F5, F6 to wd-architect as one spec amendment. F4, F7, F8 are
the implementer's on re-dispatch; F9 is a PR-body refresh. Merging as-is would
ship a module whose acceptance criteria are, on the spec's own terms, two short -
and would ship a real (if narrow) data-loss path on the redact-then-refuse arm.
