SHADOW ROUND 6 (herdr-spawned hermetic Codex, CODEX_HOME=~/.codex-review-home,
codex v0.151.0, gpt-5.6-sol high, -s read-only, detached worktree @ 9e7351e7,
fresh thread via /new). Captured verbatim from the pane after a reprint request.

VERDICT: needs-attention — no-ship: the durable source-form checker still has a valid-JavaScript false green, the closing evidence contains disproved assertions, and Branch B leaves live durable obligations behind.

FINDING 1 — The syntax anchor can hash an unused canonical decoy while the binding consumed by the guard is interpolated.
Affected file: docs/specs/WP-show-slot-own-value-kind.md:391-470, 590-613, 925-947
Confidence: 0.99
The once-only assertion counts occurrences of one declaration spelling; it does not prove that the located declaration is the KNOWN_CALLS binding later consumed by shapeMatches. I assembled the committed Exact-contract blocks and
replaced the declaration with valid CommonJS of this form:

{ const KNOWN_CALLS = [canonical initializer]; }
const { KNOWN_CALLS } = { KNOWN_CALLS: [interpolated initializer] };

The raw syntax-anchor count is exactly 1, the candidate parses, the locator hashes the block-scoped canonical decoy, the digest matches, and the checker exits GREEN. Outside the block, the destructured interpolated binding is the
one used by the guard. This defeats the relocation tripwire and directly disproves the claims that assertion (0) closes the compliant-decoy class and that reproducing the exact declaration necessarily makes the count two.
Recommendation: bind source verification to the actual top-level declarator with a real JavaScript parser, or redesign the pinned set into an isolated consumed module whose complete source can be checked. Add this exact block-
scoped-decoy plus destructured-real state to the mutation matrix. If deliberate restructuring is intentionally excluded instead, narrow the decoy-closure and no-false-green claims rather than asserting this case is impossible.

FINDING 2 — Two Round-6 evidence claims are false after the syntax-anchor change.
Affected file: docs/specs/WP-show-slot-own-value-kind.md:405-406, 474-482, 614-621, 888-899
Confidence: 1.0
In the assembled guard-file form, canonical and pure re-indentation are GREEN; interpolation with unchanged digest, tampered digest, the three Round-5 evasions, and the earlier mutation states are RED. However, restoring an un-
split NAME remains GREEN, not RED: the self-reference is followed by its string-literal quote, so it cannot satisfy the new NAME + whitespace + equals + opening-bracket pattern. The old self-collision disappeared when the syntax
anchor replaced substring matching. Separately, lines 896-899 call the last four table rows the durable arm and say they prove sibling-constant-before/after plus tampered digest, but those rows are now interpolation plus the three
Round-5 evasions; the cited sibling/tamper rows are 887-890.
Recommendation: remove the obsolete split-needle failure claim or add an independent assertion that genuinely enforces it, then re-run and record the actual result. Replace the positional last-four wording with explicit state names
or row descriptions so later additions cannot silently retarget the evidence.

FINDING 3 — The owner-rejection branch is not the complete mutually exclusive rewrite it claims to be.
Affected file: docs/specs/WP-show-slot-own-value-kind.md:50-109, 911-947
Confidence: 0.97
Branch B says every durable reference is enumerated and that only two sentences inside the pin/state-table material still need rewriting. Yet lines 911-947 would survive the listed edits and remain present-tense durable design:
every future edit must re-pin, there is one live computation in one script, the checker guards against drift, assertion (0) closes decoys, and the shipped declaration is the thing hashed. Under Branch B the checker and digest
constant are not committed, so those surviving obligations and guarantees are false. The branch therefore cannot be applied as enumerated without leaving the exact cross-branch residue it says is unavailable.
Recommendation: add the three paragraphs at lines 911-947 to the Branch-B rewrite list. Delete future-enforcement language and rewrite any retained material explicitly as past-tense one-time measurement; then repeat the durable-
keyword and criteria-reference walk after applying the rewrite mechanically.

Scope objections: none.
